Add dedicated encryption at rest documentation (#527)
CleverCloud/doc.clever-cloud.com: administrate/encryption-at-rest.md

---
title: Encryption at rest
tags:
- encryption
- rest
- security
---

## Introduction

Encrypting your data at rest provides another security layer to protect your data from various security threats. By default and unless you implemented it in your code, the data stored on disk is not encrypted. Enabling encryption at rest allows you to make sure your data can't be read by anyone having a physical access to the hard drive.

> Encryption at rest only protects the data "at rest", meaning that if your data is sent over an unencrypted channel on the network, it could be read on the fly. The scenario encryption at rest covers are mostly hard drives stealing or unauthorized access once the hard drive got removed.

Author: Eh, antidote told me not to use a `s` here so I dropped it, even though I wasn't really ok with this change either.

Each add-on has a randomly generated encryption key used to encrypt the data disk. The key will stay the same during the add-on life but can be changed if needed. In that case, a migration will use the new passphrase.

We use the [cryptsetup tool](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/cryptsetup) to operate encrypted disks. Cryptsetup's current default is [LUKS2](https://gitlab.com/cryptsetup/LUKS2-docs) with `aes-xts` as the encryption algorithm. This may be subject to change as cryptsetup and the security algorithms evolve.

The encryption key is only stored encrypted on our systems and is not stored on your add-on. When your add-on boots, the key is downloaded over HTTPS from our systems and the disk is then mounted.

We also have a small swap partition on add-ons to allow more available RAM for background services. This swap file is also encrypted to avoid any encrypted data leak.

### Performances

Performances may be a bit degraded with encryption enabled but in most of the cases under regular load, it is usually insignificant and an acceptable tradeoff.

> Also, depending on wether you are using a single vCPU add-on or a multiple vCPU one, numbers can greatly vary. Single vCPU instances will switch between decrypting/encrypting the data and reading/writing it to the disk while multiple vCPU instances will be able to parallelize those operations, leading to better performances.

Reviewer: whether

Reviewer: better performance

> Also, depending on the fact that you are using a single vCPU add-on or a multiple vCPU one, numbers can greatly vary. Single vCPU instances will switch between decrypting / encrypting the data and reading / writing it to the disk while multiple vCPU instances will be able to parallelize those operations, leading to better performances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, depending on wether you are using a single vCPU add-on or a multiple vCPU one, numbers can greatly vary. Single vCPU instances will switch between decrypting/encrypting the data and reading/writing it to the disk while multiple vCPU instances will be able to parallelize those operations, leading to better performances.
```
